--Guide 11

1.
	a.
		 On which to the Oracle database focus?
		The client tier:
		"The client tier consists of application clients that access a Java EE server and 
		that are usually located on a different machine from the server"

		The Web Tier:
		"The web tier consists of components that handle the interaction between clients and the business tier. Its primary tasks are the following:

		Dynamically generate content in various formats for the client

		Collect input from users of the client interface and return appropriate results from the components in the business tier

		Control the flow of screens or pages on the client

		Maintain the state of data for a user's session

		Perform some basic logic and hold some data temporarily in managed beans"

		The Business Tier
		"The business tier consists of components that provide the business logic for an application"

		The Entierprise Information Systems Tier
		"The enterprise information systems (EIS) tier consists of database servers, enterprise resource planning systems, 
		and other legacy data sources, like mainframes."

	b.
		"Java EE containers are the interface between the component and the lower-level 
		functionality provided by the platform to support that component."
		There is a web, ejb, and application client container.

2.

		a.
			JPA:"The Java Persistence API (JPA) is a Java standards–based solution for persistence. Persistence uses an object/relational mapping approach to bridge the gap between an object-oriented model and a relational database. "
			 JTA:"The Java Transaction API (JTA) provides a standard interface for demarcating transactions. The Java EE architecture provides a default auto commit to handle transaction commits and rollbacks"
			 JAX-RS*:"The Java API for RESTful Web Services (JAX-RS) defines APIs for the development of web services built according to the Representational State Transfer (REST) architectural style. A JAX-RS application is a web application that consists of classes packaged as a servlet in a WAR file along with required libraries."
			 JDBC:"he Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) API lets you invoke SQL commands from Java programming language methods. You use the JDBC API in an enterprise bean when you have a session bean access the database."
			 JAXB: "he Java Architecture for XML Binding (JAXB) provides a convenient way to bind an XML schema to a representation in Java language programs. "
		 
		b.

			"A Java EE application is delivered in a Java Archive (JAR) file, a Web Archive (WAR) file, or an Enterprise Archive (EAR) file. "
			"An EAR file (see Figure 5-1) contains Java EE modules and, optionally, deployment descriptors."
			"An EJB JAR file is portable and can be used for various applications."
			" a web module is the smallest deployable and usable unit of web resources. A web module contains web components and static web content files, such as images, which are called web resources"

3.

		a.
			The IntelliJ IDEAA 2016.3

		b.
			JDK is the "Java SE Development Kit" which we will use to develop applications
			GlassFish is the server we will use to host the service 


		c.
			"REST defines a set of architectural principles by which you can design Web services that
			focus on a system's resources, "  

			"One of the key characteristics of a RESTful Web service is the explicit use of HTTP methods
			in a way that follows the protocol as defined by RFC 2616. HTTP GET, for instance, 
			is defined as a data-producing method that's intended to be used by a client application
			to retrieve a resource, to fetch data from a Web server, or to execute a query with the 
			expectation that the Web server will look for and respond with a set of matching resources."