Guide 14
Nathanael Dick
Read Section 30.1:
Name and explain the for kinds of control measures required for database security.
	quotes means somewhere quoted
	"Access control
		Whenever a person or a group of persons needs to access a database system, the
		individual or group must first apply for a user account.
	 Inference control
			Statistical databases are used to provide statistical information or summaries of
			values based on various criteria. For example, a database for population statistics
			may provide statistics based on age groups, income levels, household size, education
			levels, and other criteria.
	 Flow control
			which prevents information from
			flowing in such a way that it reaches unauthorized users.
	 Data encryption
			which is used to protect sensitive data
			(such as credit card numbers) that is transmitted via some type of communications
			network."
	Compare and contrast information security and information privacy.
		"Security in information technology refers to many aspects of protecting a system
		from unauthorized use, including authentication of users, information encryption,
		access control, firewall policies, and intrusion detection"

		"privacy is the ability
		of individuals to control the terms under which their personal information is
		acquired and used."

Read Imperva’s Top 5 Database Security Threats.
Name and explain the security threats discussed in the article.
	"What are the Top 5 Database Security Threats?
		1. Excessive, inappropriate, and unused privileges
		When you grant someone database privileges that exceed the requirements of their job function,
		these privileges can be abused.
		2. Privilege abuse
		When you grant someone database privileges that exceed the requirements of their job function,
		these privileges can be abused.
		3. Insufficient web application security
		Most organizations rely heavily on apps to interface with customers. There are many types of
		attacks on applications that can expose data. Two common types of web application attacks that
		target databases are SQL Injection and Web Shell. 
		4.Weak audit trails
		The failure
		to monitor for both security and compliance anomalies and collect the appropriate audit details
		of database activity represents a serious organizational risk at many levels.
		5. Unsecured storage media
		 Numerous security breaches have involved the theft or incidental
		exposure of database backup disks and tapes. "