Guide 8
Nathanael Dick
1.
	a.
		1. Embedding database commands in a general-purpose programming language.
		2. Using a library of database functions or classes.
		3. Designing a brand-new language.
	b.
		i.
		impedance mismatch: "is the term used to refer to the problems that occur because of differences
		between the database model and the programming language model."
		ii.
		Stored Procedures:
		1. If a database program is needed by several applications, it can be stored at
the server and invoked by any of the application programs. This reduces
duplication of effort and improves software modularity.

		2. Executing a program at the server can reduce data transfer and communication
cost between the client and server in certain situations.

		3.  These procedures can enhance the modeling power provided by views by
allowing more complex types of derived data to be made available to the
database users via the stored procedures. Additionally, they can be used to
check for complex constraints that are beyond the specification power of
assertions and triggers
		iii.
		triggers: "a technique for specifying certain types of active rules--has existed in early
		versions of the SQL specification for relational databases
2.
	a.
		i. procedural vs non-procedural languages.
		
		"In a nonprocedural language such as SQL, the set of data to be operated on is specified, 
		but not the operations to be performed or the manner in which they are to be carried out.
		In a procedural language program, most statement execution depends on previous or
		subsequent statements and on control structures, such as loops or conditional branches,
		that are not available in SQL."
			Example: 
				The preceding statement requests data, but does not apply logic to the data.
			However, suppose you want an application to determine whether each employee in the 
			data set deserves a raise based on salary and department performance. A necessary
			condition of a raise is that the employee did not receive more than three raises in
			the last five years. If a raise is called for, then the application must adjust the
			salary and email the manager; otherwise, the application must update a report.
		
		ii.client-side vs server-side database programming.
		
		"Use client-side programming to embed SQL statements in applications written in 
		procedural languages such as C, C++, or Java"
		
		"Use server-side programming to develop data logic that resides in the database"
		b.
		"Use server-side programming to develop data logic that resides in the database"
		
		c.
		i.type: a package 
		it outputs the line number to the terminal
		ii.type: a package
		this outputs the line 'Hello, PL/SQl to the terminal
		iii.Database triggers
		every time a person is inserted or updated the database triggers a response
		that ouputs to the terminal there is a name change
https://docs.oracle.com/cd/B19306_01/server.102/b14200/sql_elements007.htm
		