Guide 1 
Name: Nathanael Dick 
Subject: CS 342
Notes:Book is referenced throughout. Material in book may be directly quoted without 
quotes.

1.	Chapter 1

	a.	Compare and contrast data, databases, database (management) systems and information systems.
	Answer:
		A database is a collection of data.  Data is fact that have meaning an can be recorded.  
		A database management system is a collection of programs that enables users to create and maintain a database.
		Information system is at a higher level describing the database and the components that make up the database.
	b.	Compare and contrast database systems with the following, using the main characteristics of the database approach in your discussion.
			data structures and algorithms
		Answer:
			1.	using an operation on data requires having an interface and an implementation which can be changed 
			without effecting the interface
				i.	this happens via data abstraction providing users with a conceptual representation of the
				actions of the data
			traditional file systems
		Answer:
			1.	in file processing each user defines and implements the files needed for a specific software application as part of programming the application while in a database a single repository maintains data that is defined once eliminating the redundancy needed in file systems.  There is also a
				i.	self-describing nature of a database system
				ii.	insulation between programs and data and data abstraction
				iii.	support of multiple views of the data
				iv.	sharing of data and multiuser transaction processing
	c.	Identify the stakeholders of database systems.
			Government business and industry
2.	Chapter 2
	a.	Explain the significance of the categories of data models. Which type of model is displayed in Figure 2.1?
		Answer:
		i.	High-level or conceptual data models provide concepts that are close to the way many users perceive data 
		whereas low-level or physical data models provide concepts that describe that details of how data is stored on 
		the pc storage media typically magnetic disks.  
		Between these extremes is the representational or implementation data
		models which provide concepts that may be easily understood by end users but that are not too far removed from the 
		way data is organized in pc storage.  Also object data models are a family of higher level implementation data models
		that are close to conceptual data models used in software engineering domain.
		j.	Figure 2.1 is a representational model.
	
	b.	Explain the structure and significance of the three-schema architecture.
		Answer:
		i.	They use of a catalog to store the database description or schema so as to make it self-describing
		ii.	Insulation of programs and data 
		iii.Support of multiple user views
		iV.	These characteristics help us visualize the three schema architecture which is as follows
			1.	The internal level has an internal schema which describes the physical storage structure of the database the internal schema uses a physical data model and describes the complete details of that storage access paths for the database
			2.	The conceptual level has a conceptual schema which describes the structure of the whole database for a community of users the conceptual schema hides the details of physical storage structures and concentrates on describing data types relationships user operations constraints and entities
			3.	The external or view level includes a number of external schemas or user views each external schema describes the part of the database that a particular user group is interested in and hides the rest of the database from that user group.
	
	c.	Explain the tiers used in a typical web-based information system.
	Answer:
		A three tier structur is often used.  This adds an intermediate layer between the client 
		and dthe database server this middle tier is called the application or web server it plays an intermediary role
		by running applclication programs and storing business rules tha uare used to access data from the database server
		it can also improve database security by checking a clients credentials before allowing them accessess

3.	Done.