Guide 3
Name: Nathanael Dick
Used ppt slides online that go with book and book many parts are quoted without quotes


Read Chapter 3.
	a. Compare and contrast the database and the software design processes. Are agile modeling practices applicable to database design as well?
		--Database Design: the first step shown is requirements collection and analysis the database designers review and document the data requirements.  
		--These consist of the user defined operations that will be applied to the database.
		--However, in software design it is common to use data flow diagrams sequence diagrams and other scenarios to specify functional requirements.
		--The next step is the create a conceptual schema for the database using a high level conceptual data model this step is called the conceptual design this is a description of the data requirements of the users and includes
detailed descriptions of the thirty type relationships and constraints,  
		--After this the basic data model operations can be used to specify the high level user queries and operations identified during functional analysis.
		--The next step is the actual impetration of the database using a commercial dB (i.e. sq.).  This step is called the logical design or data model mapping.
		--the last step is the physical design phase during which the internal storage structures file organizations indices access paths and physical design parameter fro 
the data base files are specified.


	b. Explain the following terms: entities, relationships (including cardinality and participation constraints), attributes (simple, composite, multi-valued and derived).
		--Entity is a basic concept for the ER model. Entities are specific things or objects in the mini-world that are represented in the database.
For example, the EMPLOYEE John Smith, the Research DEPARTMENT, the Product PROJECT
		--Attributes are properties used to describe an entity.
For example, an EMPLOYEE entity may have the attributes Name, SSN, Address, Sex, Birthdate
Types of Attributes
		--Simple: Each entity has a single atomic value for the attribute. For example, SSN or Sex.
		--Composite:
	The attribute may be composed of several components for example address (apt#, Street, State) or Name (First Name, Last Name)
		--Multivalued
	An entity may have multiple values for that attribute IE Color of a car or previous degree s of a student
		--Single Valued: age is a single valued attribute of a person
		--Derived: age can be derived from birth date attribute
	c. Explain weak entities and identifying relationships.
		--entity types that do not have key attributes of their own are called weak entity types in contracts regular entity types that do not have a key attribute are called strong entity types
Example: 
	A DEPENDENT entity is identified by the dependent’s first name, and the specific EMPLOYEE with whom the dependent is related
	Name of DEPENDENT is the partial key
	DEPENDENT is a weak entity type
	EMPLOYEE is its identifying entity type via the identifying relationship type DEPENDENT_OF

		--A relationship relates two or more distinct entities with a specific meaning.
For example, EMPLOYEE John Smith works on the Product PROJECT, or EMPLOYEE Franklin Wong manages the Research DEPARTMENT.
Relationships of the same type are grouped or typed into a relationship type.
For example, the WORKS_ON relationship type in which EMPLOYEEs and PROJECTs participate, or the MANAGES relationship type in which EMPLOYEEs and DEPARTMENTs participate.


	d. Model a person-household database (from class 2) using an ERD.
	Entity Types:
Entity: PERSON
Attribute: id, Date of birth, gender, phone number
Entity HOUSEHOLD with  
Attributes: id, number in household, address, phone number
Here address and birth date would be a composite attribute
The rest would be simple
The relationship between the household and the person is that the person lives in the household
	e. Skim the material in Section 3.8 on UML diagrams; we won’t use it here but we have addressed it in CS 262 and will review it in unit 11.

Note the ERD reference sheet in Figure 3.14.

2. Read Chapter 9.
	a. Map the ERD model from above to a relational database model.
PERSON
 id, Date of birth, gender, phone number
HOUSEHOLD with  
 id, number in household, address, phone number
where it relates the two databases
one of the main pointes to note in a relational schema uncontract to an ER schema is that relationship types are not represented explicitly instead they are represented by having two attributes an and b one a primary key anthem other a foreign n key. b

	b. Explain how to map from a UML model to a relational database model. We will address this issue more carefully in a later unit (on object-relational mapping).
I am not sure where the ump model is mentioned in chapter 9 I reviewed the entire chapter and did not see any mention of the ump model.  The ump model is mentioned in chapter 3 but as far as I can see not in chapter 9.
